K8s: install helm chart (#957)
redis/docs: content/operate/kubernetes/deployment/helm.md

---
Title: Install Redis Enterprise Helm chart
alwaysopen: false
categories:
- docs
- operate
- kubernetes
description: Install the Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes version 7.8.Wisconsin using helm charts.
linkTitle: Helm
weight: 11
---

Helm charts provide a simple way to install the Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes operator in just a few steps. For more information about Helm, go to [https://helm.sh/docs/](https://helm.sh/docs/).

{{<note>}} This feature is currently in public preview and is not supported on production workloads. Only new installations of the Redis operator are supported at this time. The steps for [creating the RedisEnterpriseCluster (REC)]({{<relref "operate/kubernetes/deployment/quick-start/#create-a-redis-enterprise-cluster-rec">}}) and other custom resources remain the same.{{</note>}}

## Prerequisites

- A [supported distribution]({{< relref "/operate/kubernetes/reference/supported_k8s_distributions.md" >}}) of Kubernetes.
- At least three worker nodes.
- [Kubernetes client (kubectl)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/).
- [Helm 3.10 or later](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).

## Install

1. Add the `redis` repository.

    ```sh

>     helm repo add redis-enterprise-helm https://helm.redis.io/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    helm repo add redis-enterprise https://helm.redis.io/
```

or better

```suggestion
    helm repo add redis https://helm.redis.io/
```

>     ```

Author: @zcahana is this repo name arbitrary? Or does it need to be either "redis" or "redis-enterprise"?

>     ```

Reviewer 2: Yes, it's entirely arbitrary.

> 1. Install the Helm chart into a new namespace.

Reviewer 2: This doesn't have to be a new namespace, so I'm not sure if we should mention that.

    ```sh
    helm install <operator-name> redis/redis-enterprise-operator \
        -- version <release-name> \
        -- namespace <namespace-name> \

>         -- create-namespace

Reviewer 2: This applies to all command examples throughout the document.

>     ```sh
>     helm install <operator-name> redis-enterprise-helm/redis-enterprise-operator \
>         -- version <release-name> \
>         -- namespace <namespace-name> \
>         -- create-namespace
>     ```

Reviewer: same here

```suggestion
    ```sh
    helm install <operator-name> redis/redis-enterprise-operator \
        -- version <release-name> \
        -- namespace <namespace-name> \
        -- create-namespace
    ```
```

> To install with Openshift, add `--set openshift.mode=true`.

Reviewer 2: I'm definitely not a language authority, but is it "install **with** OpenShift" or "install **to** OpenShift" (or "install to an OpenShift cluster")?
Also - I believe it's Open**S**hift and not Open**s**hift.

> To monitor the installation add the `--debug` flag. The installation runs several jobs synchronously and may take few minutes to complete.

Reviewer 2: Not sure, but "few" or "a few"?

### Install from local directory

> 1. Find the latest release on the [redis-enterprise-k8s-docs Github](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/releases) and download the `tar.gz` source code into a local directory.

Reviewer 2: Can also consider this, I think it looks a little nicer when rendered:
- ...on the [redis-enterprise-k8s-docs](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/releases) repo and...
- vs
- ...on the [redis-enterprise-k8s-docs Github](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/releases) and...
```suggestion
1. Find the latest release on the [redis-enterprise-k8s-docs](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/releases) repo and download the `tar.gz` source code into a local directory.
```

1. Install the Helm chart from your local directory.

    ```sh

>     helm install <release-name> <path-to-chart> \

Reviewer: <release-name> or <operator-name>
need to be consistent.

I think <operator-name> is better

        -- namespace <namespace-name> \
        -- create-namespace
    ```

To install with Openshift, add `--set openshift.mode=true`.

To monitor the installation add the `--debug` flag. The installation runs several jobs synchronously and may take few minutes to complete.

### Specify values during install

> 1. View configurable values with `helm show values redis/redis --version <release-name>`.

Reviewer 2: The argument to `helm show values` is also a <repo-name>/<chart-name>.
The <chart-name> should be `redis-enterprise-operator`, and the <repo-name> should best align with whatever you pick in the install section above (either `redis` or `redis-enterprise`).

> 1. View configurable values with `helm show values redis/redis --version <release-name>`.

Reviewer 2: Also - same comment about <chart-version> instead of <release-name>.

> 1. View configurable values with `helm show values redis/redis-enterprise-operator --version <release-name>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. View configurable values with `helm show values redis/redis --version <release-name>`.
```

1. Install the Helm chart, overriding specific value defaults using `--set`.

    ```sh

>     helm install <operator-name> redis-enterprise-helm/redis-enterprise-operator \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    helm install <operator-name> redis/redis-enterprise-operator \
```

        -- version <release-name> \
        -- namespace <namespace-name> \
        -- create-namespace
        --set <key1>=<value1> \
        --set <key2>=<value2>
    ```

> ### Install with values file

Reviewer 2: This section is largely repeating the previous one, maybe we should just mention that the values may be overridden either by the `--set` flag or via `--values` file?

Author: I feel like creating a values file is a slightly different workflow? Maybe @bascar can weigh in?

Reviewer 2: Actually in another look, this does look fine to me :-)

1. View configurable values with `helm show values redis/redis-enterprise-operator --version <release-name>`.

1. Create a YAML file containing the configuration values you want to set.

> 1. Create a YAML file to specify the values you want to configure.

Reviewer 2: Only one of these should win.

1. Install the chart with the `--values` option.

    ```sh

>     helm install <operator-name> redis-enterprise-helm/redis-enterprise-operator \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    helm install <operator-name> redis/redis-enterprise-operator \
```

---
Title: Install Redis Enterprise Helm chart
alwaysopen: false
categories:
- docs
- operate
- kubernetes

> description: Install the Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes version 7.8.Wisconsin using helm charts.

Reviewer 2: Not sure, is the 7.8.Wisconsin plcaeholder ok to merge, or need to be updated?

> description: Install the Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes version 7.8.Wisconsin using Helm charts.

Reviewer 3: Should this be "Install the Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes operator version..."? If not then maybe "the" should be removed?

> description: Install the Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes version 7.8.Wisconsin using Helm charts.

Author: ```suggestion
description: Install Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes version 7.8.Wisconsin using Helm charts.
```

linkTitle: Helm
weight: 11
---

Helm charts provide a simple way to install the Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes operator in just a few steps. For more information about Helm, go to [https://helm.sh/docs/](https://helm.sh/docs/).

{{<note>}} This feature is currently in public preview and is not supported on production workloads. Only new installations of the Redis operator are supported at this time. The steps for [creating the RedisEnterpriseCluster (REC)]({{<relref "operate/kubernetes/deployment/quick-start#create-a-redis-enterprise-cluster-rec">}}) and other custom resources remain the same.{{</note>}}

## Prerequisites

- A [supported distribution]({{< relref "/operate/kubernetes/reference/supported_k8s_distributions.md" >}}) of Kubernetes.
- At least three worker nodes.
- [Kubernetes client (kubectl)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/).
- [Helm 3.10 or later](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).

### Example values

> The steps below use the following placeholders to indicate values you must provide: 

Reviewer 2: Thinking, maybe this sentence better avoid using the term "values" (in "values you must provide"), to not create confusion with helm values. Can use "parameters" or even "command line parameters".

> - `<repo-name>` is the name of repo holding your Helm chart (example: `redis`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `<repo-name>` is the name of the repo holding your Helm chart (example: `redis`).
```

- `<release-name>` is the name you give a specific installation of the Helm chart (example: `my-redis-enterprise-operator`)
- `<chart-version>` is the version of the Helm chart you are installing (example: `7.8.2-2`)
- `<namespace-name>` is the name of the new namespace the Redis operator will run in (example: `ns1`)

> - `<path-to-chart>` is the filepath to the Helm chart, if it is stored in a local directory (exmaple: `/home/charts/redis-enterprise-operato`)

Reviewer 2: operato --> operator

> - `<path-to-chart>` is the filepath to the Helm chart, if it is stored in a local directory (exmaple: `/home/charts/redis-enterprise-operator`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `<path-to-chart>` is the filepath to the Helm chart, if it is stored in a local directory (example: `/home/charts/redis-enterprise-operator`)
```

2. Install the Helm chart from your local directory.

```sh
helm install <release-name> <path-to-chart> \
    --namespace <namespace-name> \
    --create-namespace
```

To install with Openshift, add `--set openshift.mode=true`.

To monitor the installation add the `--debug` flag. The installation runs several jobs synchronously and may take a few minutes to complete.

### Specify values during install

1. View configurable values with `helm show values <repo-name>/<chart-name>`.

2. Install the Helm chart, overriding specific value defaults using `--set`.

```sh
helm install <operator-name> redis/redis-enterprise-operator \
    --version <release-name> \
    --namespace <namespace-name> \
    --create-namespace
    --set <key1>=<value1> \
    --set <key2>=<value2>
```

### Install with values file

1. View configurable values with `helm show values <repo-name>/<chart-name>`.

2. Create a YAML file to specify the values you want to configure.

3. Install the chart with the `--values` option.

```sh
helm install <operator-name> redis/redis-enterprise-operator \
    -- version <release-name> \
    -- namespace <namespace-name> \
    -- create-namespace \

>     -- values <path-to-values-file>

Reviewer 2: Some more `--flags` to be fixed.

```

## Uninstall

> 1. Delete any custom resources managed by the operator. See [Delete custom resources]({{<relref "operate/kubernetes/re-clusters/delete-custom-resources">}}) for detailed steps. Custom resources must be deleted in the correct order to avoid errors.

Reviewer 3: Better to avoid PV here? Not sure.
```suggestion
1. Delete any custom resources managed by the operator. See [Delete custom resources]({{<relref "operate/kubernetes/re-clusters/delete-custom-resources">}}) for detailed steps. You must delete custom resources in the correct order to avoid errors.
```

2. Uninstall the Helm chart.

```sh
helm uninstall <release-name>
```

This removes all Kubernetes resources associated with the chart and deletes the release.

{{<note>}}Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs) installed by the chart are not removed during chart uninstallation. To remove them manually after uninstalling the chart, run `kubectl delete crds -l app=redis-enterprise`.{{</note>}}

## Known limitations

- Only new installations of the Redis operator are supported at this time. The steps for [creating the RedisEnterpriseCluster (REC)]({{<relref "operate/kubernetes/deployment/quick-start#create-a-redis-enterprise-cluster-rec">}}) and other custom resources remain the same.
- Upgrades and migrations are not supported.

> - The chart doesn't include configuration options for multiple namespaces, rack-awareness, and Vault integration. The steps for configuring these options remains the same.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The chart doesn't include configuration options for multiple namespaces, rack-awareness, and Vault integration. The steps for configuring these options remain the same.
```

## Prerequisites

- A [supported distribution]({{< relref "/operate/kubernetes/reference/supported_k8s_distributions.md" >}}) of Kubernetes.
- At least three worker nodes.
- [Kubernetes client (kubectl)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/).
- [Helm 3.10 or later](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).

## Install

1. Add the `redis-enterprise-helm` repository.

    ```sh
    helm repo add redis-enterprise-helm https://helm.redis.io/
    ```

1. Install the Helm chart into a new namespace.

    ```sh
    helm install <operator-name> redis-enterprise-helm/redis-enterprise-operator \
        -- version <release-name> \
        -- namespace <namespace-name> \
        -- create-namespace
    ```

To install with Openshift, add `--set openshift.mode=true`.

To monitor the installation add the `--debug` flag. The installation runs several jobs synchonously and may take few minutes to complete.

### Install from local directory

DOWNLOAD TGZ FILE
HELM INSTALL FROM LOCAL DIRECTORY

## Configuration

> See [`values.yaml`](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-operator/blob/master/deploy/helm/redis-enterprise-operator/values.yaml) for the default values.

Reviewer: better way to get the default values.
```suggestion
helm show values redis/redis-enterprise-operator --version <release-name>
```
it will print the `values.yaml` file.

### Install with values file

> 1. View configurable values with `helm show values`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. View configurable values with `helm show values redis/redis-enterprise-operator --version <release-name>`.
```

- [Kubernetes client (kubectl)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/).
- [Helm 3.10 or later](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).

### Example values

The steps below use the following placeholders to indicate values you must provide: 

> - `<repo-name>` is the name of repo holding your helm chart (example: `redis`).

Reviewer 2: Maybe also Helm (instead of helm), as used in other places in the doc.
